Proof of Parent’s Physical Presence or Residency in the U.S. for Acquired Citizenship Claims
=== text
FOIA Request
It might be helpful to submit a Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) Request on your U.S. citizen parent or parents.
 
U.S. Citizen Parent’s school records
Before you were born, your parent may have attended elementary, junior high, high school or college in the U.S. Ask your parent or members of your family where your parent went to school. If your parent is alive, have the parent write or call the schools to find out the process for requesting records. 

Parent’s records from church or other religious institutions
Before you were born, your parent may have attended a particular church, temple, synagogue, etc. Your parent may have been a member of a church or other religious institution. Your parent may have records of his or her baptism, communion or other church ceremonies that occurred in the U.S. Ask your parent for records of his or her
religious involvement, or ask your parent to write for such records from the religious organization. Also, there may be someone at the church or institution that remembers your parent and can write a letter about the parent’s attendance or membership at the church or institution. The person writing the letter should be as specific as possible about the dates your parent was involved in the church or institution and how the
author of the letter knows this. Also, the letter should be notarized.

Parent’s work records

Your parent may have worked in the U.S. and have records of their employment, such as check receipts. Your parent can and should request a copy of their social security records. If your parent is no longer alive, an immediate family member such as yourself
can request the social security records. If the parent is still alive, only he or she can request the records. To request social security records, write to the following address
and request FORM SSA-7004-SM (Request for Social Security Statement).
Social Security Administration
Wilkes-Barre Data Operations Center
P.O. Box 7004
Wilkes-Barre, PA 18767-7004
 

Parent’s tax returns
If your parent worked in the U.S. during the years you need to prove that he or she was in the U.S., the parent may have filed income tax forms. Your parent or family may have copies of such forms. If your parent is not alive, you or an immediate family member can request the forms.
To make the request, fill out Form 4506 (“Request for Copy of Tax Return”) and Form
4506-T (“Request for Transcript of Tax Return”) and send them to the IRS. The address where you send the forms depends on where your parent lived when they filed their taxes. Look at the instructions for Form 4506 to find the correct address.
 
Affidavits from Witnesses
Perhaps your parent has friends or was acquainted with community members in the U.S. during the years you want to prove your parent was in the U.S. You or your family could request that such witnesses write “affidavits” stating:
 The exact years they knew your parent;
 How they knew your parent;
 Where your parent was during those years (city, state, address if known); and
 Any other specific information they remember about your parent such as your parent’s type and place of employment, school attendance, or church attendance.
The affidavit must be signed and notarized. It also must be written in English.


